Flags

Introduction

A flag is a piece of fabric, often flown from a pole or mast, generally 
used symbolically for signaling or identification. It is most commonly 
used to symbolize a country. The term flag is also used to refer to the 
graphic design employed by a flag, or to its depiction in another 
medium. Flags are also used in messaging, advertising, or for other 
decorative purposes. The study of flags is known as vexillology, from 
the Latin vexillum meaning flag or banner. 

History

The origin of modern flags lies in our remote prehistoric past. When 
people started to form large groups to live and hunt together, they 
appointed a leader to rule them and settle disputes. As a mark of office 
this leader would wear some sort of ceremonial head-dress and hold a 
long decorative staff, rod or spear, topped with an ornament or tribal 
emblem. The staff was also used as a visible sign to rally around, or to 
point out the direction of a march or attack. This prehistoric, or 
proto-flag, is known as a vexilloid. 

Later in Ancient China, a different tradition developed when silk was 
invented between 6000 and 3000 BC. This strong, light fabric was ideal 
for making banners, which were much easier to carry than the vexilloids 
that had been used earlier, and they were also easier to see from a 
distance. 

From Ancient China the use of fabric flags spread to Mongolia, Japan, 
Korea, India, Persia, Ancient Greece, and finally the Roman Empire and 
the rest of Europe. 

During the Middle Ages, flags were used for a variety of purposes 
including: identification of members of nobility, guilds, cities, 
religious worship, and for use during battles. In battle, flags were 
used by military companies for identification on the field and relaying 
of strategic instructions. 

From the era of sailing vessels onwards, it has been customary (and 
later a legal requirement) for ships to carry flags designating their 
nationality. These flags eventually evolved into the national flags and 
maritime flags of today. Flags also became the preferred means of 
communications at sea, resulting in various systems of flag signals (see 
International Maritime Signal Flags) 

National Flags

One of the most popular uses of a flag is to symbolize a nation or 
country. Some national flags have been particularly inspirational to 
other nations, countries, or subnational entities in the design of their 
own flags. Some interesting national flag facts include: 

The Tricolour of The Netherlands is the oldest tricolor, first appearing in 1572 as the Prince's Flag in orange-white-blue.
The flag of Denmark is the oldest state flag still in use.
The flag of Nepal is the only national flag that is not rectangular.

International Maritime Signal Flags

From the era of sailing vessels onwards, it has been customary (and 
later a legal requirement) for ships to carry flags designating their 
nationality; these flags eventually evolved into the national flags and 
maritime flags of today. Flags also became the preferred means of 
communications at sea, resulting in various systems of flag signals. 

The system of international maritime signal flags is a way of 
representing individual letters of the alphabet in signals to or from 
ships. It is a component of the International Code of Signals (INTERCO). 

There are various methods that the flags can be used as signals:

Each flag spells out an alphabetic message, letter by letter.

Individual flags have specific and standard meanings; for example, 
diving support vessels raise the "A flag" indicating their inability to 
move from their current location because they have a diver underwater. 

One or more flags form a code word whose meaning can be looked up in a 
code book held by both parties. An example is the Popham numeric code 
used at the Battle of Trafalgar. 

NATO uses the same flags, with a few unique to warships, alone or in 
short sets to communicate various unclassified messages. The NATO usage 
generally differs from the International meanings, and therefore 
warships will fly the Code/Answer flag above the signal to indicate it 
should be read using the International meaning. 

Maritme Signals: Letters
 
A - Alpha
"I have a diver down; keep well clear at slow speed."
B - Bravo
"I am taking in, or discharging, or carrying dangerous goods." 
C - Charlie
"Affirmative."
D - Delta
"Keep clear of me; I am maneuvering with difficulty."
E - Echo
"I am altering my course to starboard."
F - Foxtrot
"I am disabled; communicate with me."
G - Golf
"I require a pilot."
H - Hotel
"I have a pilot on board."
I - India
"I am altering my course to port."
J - Juliet
"I am on fire and have dangerous cargo on board: keep well clear of me," or "I am leaking dangerous cargo."	 
K - Kilo
"I wish to communicate with you."
L - Lima
In harbour: "The ship is under Quarantine." At sea: "You should stop your vessel instantly."
M - Mike
"My vessel is stopped and making no way through the water."
N - November
"Negative."
O - Oscar
"Man overboard."
P - Papa
"All persons should report on board as the vessel is about to proceed to sea."
Q - Quebec
"My vessel is 'healthy' and I request free pratique."
R - Romeo
"The way is off my ship."
S - Sierra
"I am operating astern propulsion."
T - Tango
"Keep clear of me; I am engaged in pair trawling."
U - Uniform
"You are running into danger."	 
V - Victor
"I require assistance."
W - Whiskey
"I require medical assistance."
X - X-ray
"Stop carrying out your intentions and watch for my signals."
Y - Yankee
"I am dragging my anchor."	 
Z - Zulu
"I require a tug."


Maritime Signals: Numbers
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9

Information from Wikipedia